Please provide a statement that addresses your reasons for transferring and the objectives you hope to achieve. You can type directly into the box, or you can paste text from another source. (4000 characters)

The neighbors in our dorm supplemental, friends in the west halls, visiting random track meets, and going to tailgates – the memories I made over the past 4 months were unforgettable – if not instrumental to my growth. I was even able to thrive academically, acing some of my classes with minimal effort. Perfect, right? All these amazing experiences, my life at Penn State lacked something. It was a hole that I felt the presence of continuously, but it's pretty clear now: despite everything I did, nothing began to encapsulate the fiery passion for exploration I experienced at TJ.
	Thomas Jefferson High School for Science and Technology (TJ): one of the nation’s top schools, and a place where I was able to grow academically and develop myself around peers with a penchant for scientific discovery and research. Yes, there were many times that we were taking incredibly difficult courses with challenging course material. However, this environment spawned forth new adventures. It was the continuous challenge, the continuous drive shared by students across the board made it a school of a joint mind.
Slowly but surely, I would find myself pining for a similar environment at Penn State, searching for the drive necessary to challenge myself by finding an environment of researchers that worked in the same way. Searching for a similar environment, I leaned into academia (a phrase rarely uttered). And so I jumped into a dream of prose, my muse becoming a project in the field of Natural Language Processing, or NLP.  I essentially wanted to explore, with more specificity, the process of sentiment and bias analysis in long-form news media. I had previously worked with a government contractor on this problem, and the fervor quickly hit me. Night after night, neural networks whispered to me, data dancing on my left shoulder, enchanting me with ideas to complete. And headway I made – I was able to assemble a model, the rhythm of discovery burned on. But as I reached the edge of my knowledge, it soon became a cliff: where was I to go in this vast expanse with endless possible techniques to apply?
It was times like these when I so heavily relied on my mentors and researchers in the development teams of my former workspaces. So I decided to reach out, but because of insufficient time, or insufficient funds, they were unable to help. So, with the help of an introduction, I started reaching out to professors here at Penn State. The first professor didn’t specialize in NLP anymore, so she forwarded me to another professor. Unfortunately for me, that professor was on paternity leave. I’d love to say this pattern didn’t continue, but you can already see where this is going. Unfortunately, the number of NLP-educated professors at Penn State is so small that I wasn’t able to find a community for development in the same way. However, this isn’t the case at UVA. UVA’s Information and Language Processing Lab in the Department of Computer science has done similar work in a variety of different areas, such as its work on differential privacy bias in pre-trained models. When I come to UVA, I fully intend to make use of this resource as well as the machine learning network in the computer science department.
Only after coming to college did I realize how crucial it was for connections such as these, and how rare it was to find industry professionals with the desire to help. And the thing is, a university is the place to go to find help on research such as mine. Why do I want to transfer? It’s a means to an end. When I look to expand my horizons and grow as a developer and as a researcher, when I want to challenge my knowledge and expand it, I need an environment of people that can help me through it, propel me towards the right path of exploration, the echoes of my passion for research propelling me. 
