
I see myself as a creative writer that is good at expressing emotional and logical thought. However, I find it much easier to convey my thoughts through my words. My speaking is powerful and I find it simple to group smaller ideas together to create a powerful argument. When I utilize the combinations of well-set arguments in unison with my speaking skills, I am at my best.

Through the many writing pieces in class, I improved my structuring skills. A key skill I had developed after English 10 was getting solid analysis ideas out, but I had difficulties stringing together these smaller ideas to properly convey my argument. It was difficult for me to communicate the connections between these smaller points and the larger argument to my readers. However, this issue became clearer to me as I wrote more for this class and received feedback. After talking it through with my peers, I was able to note down ways to better structure my arguments to fit in these smaller into arguments with better connections. This skill of connecting ideas developed through numerous class activities such as our bucketing exercises.

What was your favorite book AND favorite assignment from our class, and why? 

The Great Gatsby spoke to me through its discussion of disillusionment. Our discussion of the novel came during a cusp in my life, where the motif of dreams touched me, causing an internal discussion within myself about the attainability of my dreams. The final line of the book inspired me to continue trying for my goals no matter how impossible they may seem. The conversation about college that followed out the context of the book into perspective for me, making Gatsby’s endeavors that much more meaningful. My favorite assignment has been the personal narrative. I particularly enjoyed it because it allowed me to work on my narration skills with a limited amount of space to write. I was forced to focus in on tiny details to encompass a small moment, which gave my writing depth and meaning. 

What was your best piece of writing in this class, and why?  What makes it your best work?

My literary analysis piece on “To the Hyphenated Poets” was my best piece in my opinion. This is not because I consider it a masterpiece, but because I am proud of my experimentation in the essay. I experimented with putting the thesis exactly halfway through, which my own personal homage to the poems motif of halfs. I am also proud of the connections I made in the poem and its topic of discussion was one I related to.

What two extracurricular activities (sports, church, student gov’t, dance, etc.) are most important to you, and why?  On average, how much time do you devote to these activities?

I participate in martial arts training outside of school. I spend (at a minimum) 30 minutes a day training in different forms of martial arts, such as judo, aikido, and karate. Some days, I can spend up to 4 hours training. I enjoy the thrill I get from maintaining my skills in these arts, even outside the dojo. I also participate in VEX Robotics. My robotics team is not perfect and being the sole programmer on the team with the pressure of states comes with its own stressors. However, nothing compares to the thrill of watching the robot built with our sweat absolutely sweep matches and take control of the field. During robotics season, i spend at least 10 hours a week at practices and meetings with the team, working on the robot.



