What about your individual background, perspective, or experience will serve as a source of strength for you or those around you at UVA? Feel free to write about any past experience or part of your background that has shaped your perspective and will be a source of strength, including but not limited to those related to your community, upbringing, educational environment, race, gender, or other aspects of your background that are important to you. (1800 characters)


Calculating. Objective. Analytical. Focused. 
None of those words describe me. I wish they did, but I never was that way. Take a step back with me into my childhood room. Looks wise, boring, with plain white walls and simple twin beds. But some of the world’s greatest tales of heroism and bravery took place there, on that floor. The room became a blank canvas to which I gave color as my legos and cars wove stories of honor and tragedy, in my own world. I was never a fan of reality, always fascinated by stories, living in my own fantasy.
As I grew, I viewed situations as part of a movie I was watching. I lived in my own world, romanticized by stories and ideas. What this meant is that I felt like I could restart. I could grow and take risks that most wouldn’t, because I knew failure would come, but it would never end my story. This mentality gave me a valuable quality: resilience. After all, if Luke Skywalker could come back from almost losing it all, why can’t I?
This resilience shone through time and time again. My time in high school was rough, I faced a challenging environment and struggled to balance extracurriculars and assignments. When I struggled, I pressed the restart button and put my efforts into my extracurriculars, leading over 5 clubs while having two internships and many side projects. When I wasn’t excited about the results of my college admissions, I hit the restart button again, putting my energy into my transfer applications. 
Failure is not an option for me, not a concept that lasts, not one I accept from myself or my peers around me, even at UVA. No matter how bad things get, we should always be ready to restart.