Michael Murphy’s talk, Architecture That’s Built to Heal, utilizes personal anecdotes paired with brief conceptual descriptions to persuade his audience to perceive architecture as a form of healing and growth. In the talk, The science of friction – and its surprising impact on our lives, Jennifer Vail attempts to impart the value of friction and the study of tribology in our daily lives. While both these talks share the similarity of a discussion about general scientific topics and are primarily persuasive, they differ in their methods of presentation and the desired change they want from their respective audiences. Murphy leans more into his personal experience as a method of inspiring the audience to help heal with architecture, whereas Vail balances examples from daily life with shorter anecdotes to encourage the audience to think about the world of friction in a different way. The emotional weighting of the talks are different as well: Vail’s talk is light-hearted and fact-centered compared to Murphy’s talk, which is more personal and likely a stronger emotional response.
The exigence of the two talks is varied because of the tone used to talk about the two issues. Murphy’s talk, being more personal, draws the exigence in at the end when he connects the first anecdote about his personal experience with architecture to his current project of using it to heal, stating, “Buildings are not simply expressive sculptures. They make visible our personal and our collective aspirations as a society. Great architecture can give us hope. Great architecture can heal” (Murphy, 14:45). The emotional tie-in as well as the sense of necessity portrayed by Murphy provides the audience with a proper understanding of why architecture is crucial to healing. In contrast, Vail portrays the exigence of learning about tribology as more of an unexplored possibility than an urgent situation, establishing why everyone should consider tribology in their daily lives. This is accomplished by continuous examples regarding her research and ways she has seen tribology can improve current systems, such as her example regarding energy consumption in America (Vail, 9:15). 
The audiences and constraints of the two speakers go hand in hand with their exigence. Vail’s rhetorical audiences can be seen as current innovators and young minds that are unaware about tribology. She establishes this most clearly through the line, “– think about how you would improve those interacting surfaces you experience. Even the smallest improvements really add up” (Vail, 11:10). This flows directly into her constraints, as a large part of her talk had to go into explaining what tribology was. Only when she had fully explained the scientific topic was she able to touch upon the nuances of the tribology. This drawback meant that less time in such a short talk could go in depth into more applications of tribology. Murphy’s audience was more focused on individuals that had felt as though architecture lacked purpose, sharing his own reflection of those thoughts in the line, “Why was it that the best architects, the greatest architecture -- all beautiful and visionary and innovative -- is also so rare, and seems to serve so very few?” (Murphy, 2:14). This established a separate constraint for Murphy, in that he was tasked with changing pre-existing opinions rather than creating new ones. Due to this constraint, emotionally charged, deeper examples and stories were likely to better help persuade Murphy’s options. The visual imagery serves separate purposes in each presentation, where Murphy’s images provide aids to the story and Jennifer’s provide explanations to the examples. Murphy’s images serve primarily to contextualize the anecdotes he is providing. The photos of his father and the images from Rwanda help provide faces to the imagination of the audience, allowing them to picture the real world impact. However, the amount of pictures and consistent flow can serve to decrease the impact that the few pictures have on the audience. They serve more as passive aids than active communicators. Vail’s presentation, in stark contrast, had very few visual aids at all. Certain segments of her speech could have benefitted from a graphic that explained the concept more directly. While the lack of graphics was an unconventional decision, in many situations, it served to enhance Vail’s examples as they were targeting personal memories. Vail’s talk was well-spoken and propelled the desired introspection regarding tribology in the daily lives that it had set out to do. Though it did not promote a fervent passion to go out and study tribology, it accomplished the rhetorical goal of striking curiosity. Vail’s strategy regarding using common, everyday experiences and relating them to the scientific topic was an effective speaking strategy. Murphy had an extremely passionate and driven talk that allowed the audience to empathize with his cause and showed real world stakes and lives changed due to the architecture of healing. It is valuable to emulate the emotional stakes that Murphy used to increase the value of his talk. Furthermore, Murphy’s use of personal anecdotes to weave together a story from beginning to end serves as an effective method of persuasion and helps create the feel of a more complete presentation.
