Holding a "Noir" Tone, Cowboy Bebop is reflective of the past. It holds a sense of familiarity, of nostalgia, leaving the viewer questioning if this was them in another lifetime. The show explores a wide range of topics, and often transitions between a joyous, adventurous state to a serious, reflective state. The show is packed with hilarious lines and scenes full of action. Despite its lively atmosphere, the show is quite relaxed. Even the action scenes are relatively calm. Somehow, Cowboy Bebop keeps you on the edge of your seat, all while still maintaining a relaxed sense. The main idea of the show is as follows: The year is 2071. Earth is inhabitable due to a hyperspace incident, but the majority of the galaxy has been explored and settled. With lawlessness reaching all time highs, the Inter-Solar System Police hire bounty hunters. The main character, Spike Spiegel, and his crewmate, Jet Black are bounty hunters very skilled at their jobs. 
Spike is a character with multiple sides. He is outwardly a fun-loving, thrill-chasing character. He acts on impulse throughout the show, but considers his actions before partaking in them. The visuals of Bebop are amazing, with the characters traveling to new horizons every episode. The show tackles some quite extreme concepts, including depression and suicide, with it becoming very clear that many of the characters are depressed. It, at certain times, can be existential, asking questions such as "What does it truly mean to be alive?". It offers insight into finding one's true identity, and even explores what it means to truly be human. It even tackles love, and displays a very adult take on love, showing that sometimes love can be fickle and that love can sometimes even hurt you more than heal you, especially with the wrong person. The show itself is centered around jazz with the majority of the soundtrack being mixed into jazz. This adds to the feel of the series, giving it a calm presence. The show itself is packed with foreshadowing and is open for analysis. Even the ending is ambiguous, leaving the show open to the interpretation of the viewer. 
The feel of Cowboy Bebop can be described as a lonely snowing night on the edge of the city. A convenience store nearby is lit up, neon signs buzzing and flickering on and off. The moon overhead, shining down as a cool breeze rushes past. The faint sounds of the hustle and bustle of the city is audible, but it is too far to matter. Soft static plays from a radio as the smoke of a cigarette flies up into the starry night sky, and you have not a care in the world. Bebop has a retro futuristic feel to it. This oxymoron perfectly describes the situation, with a feel reminiscent of life in the 80's and 90's, but visuals fit for 2071. Cowboy Bebop is truly a masterpiece as the concept, plot, music, and visuals, exploring mature topics and displaying a noir, retro-futuristic feel, tackling concepts of great difficulty such as depression. The show is truly a work of art, and though it is quite short, It leaves a lasting impact on the viewer that will not be forgotten.

