Humanity places a high degree of emphasis on pedigree, defining people based on their lineage and their background, changing the way people think or act in differing situations. Yaa Gyasi’s Homegoing displays multiple different perspectives on identity, and how a person’s knowledge and attitude towards their roots affects their actions in specific environments. Through her storytelling, readers follow a bloodline, generation by generation, finding its way back to its roots. Her complex storyline displays how roots can be both a positive influence, helping us define who we are, but also a negative one, labeling us by our roots, rather than our individual personas. Though Gyasi displays how roots can be lost, she more generally uses them to display that roots are passed down from generation through generation, showing how they can be both a burden and a blessing.

Quotes:
H. “‘My old master say H is what my mama used to call me. They asked her to name me somethin’ proper before she gave birth, but she refused. She killed herself. Master said they had to slice me out her belly ‘fore she died.’” (p. 165)
	Gyasi uses this quote to display that names are attached to roots and identity, and that the loss of such a thing as names symbolizes the loss of roots.
Akua. “‘Her hands caught re, but she touched them still. Soon she cradled them with her own burning hands, playing with the braided ropes of re that made up their hair, their coal-black lips. She felt calm, happy even, that the rewoman had found her children again at last. And as she held them, the rewoman did not protest.’”
	This quote further describes Gyasi’s relation of past roots affecting ancestors, with Akua being influenced by an ancestor whose name was unknown.
Willie. “‘If they walked forever, maybe she would start to get happy too. She might be able to forget how she’d wound up in Harlem, away from Pratt City, away from home.’”
	Gyasi uses these sentences as to describe the attachment felt by individuals to their roots, especially in times of need, with Willie calling Pratt City her home, despite living in Harlem.
Yaw. “‘There is evil in our lineage. There are people who have done wrong because they could not see the result of the wrong. They did not have these burned hands as warning.’”
	This quote by Gyasi illustrates that the wrongdoings of ancestors can follow and be traced down the root line, affecting those of the present day.
Sonny. “‘What Sonny wanted as Africa. Marcus Garvey had been onto something. Liberia and Sierra Leone, those two efforts had been a good thing, in theory at least.’”
	Gyasi uses roots to represent a calling, showing how a person may be influenced by their roots and background, they wish to return to their roots, where we see Sonny called back to the place that Esi was forcefully taken from.
Marjorie. “‘In my dreams I kept seeing this castle, but I did not know why. One day, I came to these waters and I could feel the spirits of our ancestors calling to me.’”
Through this quote, Gyasi once again displays that roots can display a calling, with Marjorie being called to the castle by her ancestor Effia.
Marcus. “‘In that room, with his family, he would sometimes imagine a different room, a fuller family. He would imagine so hard that at times he thought he could see them. Sometimes in a hut in Africa, a patriarch holding a machete; sometimes outside in a forest of palm trees, a crowd watching a young woman carrying a bucket on her head;’”
As a form parallelism to the previous examples of memories of ancestors forming as thoughts and memories in a descendant, Marcus is called by his roots to his homeland in Africa.
