1. 
Machiavelli contrasts the ideal with the real through consistent juxtaposition throughout his piece. He first mentions the ideal, such as the concept that princes should try to avoid vices, but then demonstrates the real, that this is unavoidable for us as humans. He continues to demonstrate this pattern in the other portions. He says that while liberality is good, and that generosity would make a prince’s subjects love him, it is not grounded in reality, as he will eventually run out of money to be generous with. This pattern is retained during his discussion of cruelty, as well as honesty and promise-keeping. 

2.
“It is impossible to have and exercise them all…” can be rewritten to “While singular mistakes would be difficult to avoid, they may lead to the eventual improvement of a prince’s reign”
“Hence if you wish to be widely known as a generous man…” can be rewritten to “Being overly generous can have negative impacts on the sustainability of the process and display of the prince”
“For it is a good general rule about men, that they are ungrateful, fickle…” can be rewritten to “Men have some negative traits that make them untrustworthy at times so it is best to tread carefully.”
3.  Machiavelli clearly does not have the most positive opinions on men in general. He often presents the standpoint that all men are negative and provides a punitive approach towards ruling, tending to assume that all men are inclined towards harsher behaviors. He uses the quote “For it is a good general rule about men, that they are ungrateful, fickle, liars and deceivers, fearful of danger and greedy for gain… But when the danger is close at hand, they turn against you.” This influences his direct logical appeal because his formation of logic is based directly on his argumentation regarding human nature. He continues to use the negative human nature as a means to justify his points throughout the different pieces, whether it is cruelty or truth telling in leadership.

4. Many of our US senators exhibit the traits of the “prince” described by Machiavelli. The prince he describes continuously demonstrates heavy tactics involving fear against not only his people, using fear-mongering and power as an excuse to be able to engage in underhanded behaviors. Many senators do not shy away from vices (allegedly) and tend to deal in behaviors unfitting of those leading our country, but usually to their own benefit. These senators are also fitting Machiavelli's description: “a prince may not have all the admirable qualities we listed, but it is very necessary that he should seem to have them.” They often follow their own private rules but seem to be very loud in public, where they provide a highly faked image to seem perfect and amazing individuals.

Questions

What are Machiavelli's thoughts towards the reign of Scipio, and how does that align with what he believes a prince should be?

Machiavelli states that Scipio was weak and that his lax policies allowed for his soldiers to have too much freedom, which eventually led to his downfall. He believes that a prince should not have lax inclinations and instead should rely on cruelty and fear to keep his people in line. This line is like an order, pushing his troops and citizens into place and allowing for a cleanly developing society (p. 869).

How does Machiavelli state that a prince should balance honesty versus coming off as a better character in his decision-making?

He states that a prince should have balance in his honesty, but prioritize his look over everything. He states, “you must be a great liar and hypocrite,” referring to the prince, saying that it is necessary to be successful (p. 870).

What are Machiavelli's views on the relationship between fear and love in running a kingdom?

While Machiavelli does state that rulers must rule with an iron fist, he demonstrates that there are necessary actions that must be taken to prevent this thought from going too far. A prince must be careful to not go as far as to be hated by his people, and outlines a list of issues that the prince should avoid so as to not lose the support of his people (p. 868). 

What is Machiavelli’s general point about how a prince should rule and how it differs from what the general expectation of ruling is?

Machiavelli argues that the traditional concepts of ruling are not correct, and that every additional piece adds further difficulty for the prince’s role. He truly establishes that being a virtuous prince is not in the best interest of the ruler, and if nothing else, is an unnecessary burden that need not be taken on by him. This contrasts from what the general public desire for a prince would be, with Machiavelli catering his tactics to best design a position for the prince, not for the people (p. 865).

Who are some of the few individuals referenced by Machiavelli during his advice, and what purpose do they serve?

Caesar, Hannibal, Scipio, and Alexander the 9th are all referenced by Machiavelli as individuals, and they all serve the purpose of warning the incoming prince about a certain skill or attribute. Some, like Caesar and Hannibal, are used as positive references, given as examples of why Machiavelli’s argument is grounded in reality and fact. Others, such as Scipio, serve as warning of what exactly not to do, where the prince should hope to never follow in their steed and repeat their mistakes.

Who is Machiavelli hoping to address through his writing, and what is his goal by mentioning these strategies to them. Who is he hoping to benefit?

What is Machievelli achieving through the use of the consistent allusions and historical references? How do they strengthen his argument?

Which rhetorical strategy makes Machiavelli’s case most convincing, and how does he rely on this strategy to make his case?

What assumptions does Machiavelli make throughout the texts that he extrapolates to make his argument more convincing?

What implications does Machiavelli's treatment of human nature have on his approach to maintaining and gaining political power?









