A delicious melting pot, full of wondrous flavors, humankind is made up of a vast different number of cultures, all mixing in to create diverse identities. “To the Hyphenated Poets” discusses the lives of “hyphenated poets”, or people who come from two different backgrounds. It discusses the nuances and challenges they face because of the disharmony within themselves. It engages the issue of how the identities of human beings and the environment around them affect the very core of how they interact with society, traversing through a series of metaphors alluding to the growth of “many-minded” individuals and their unique experiences as members of a society bent on fitting people into boxes, assigning people stereotypes and confining them into a label smaller than their complexities. “To the Hyphenated Poets” examines the soul and legacy of first-generation Americans, studying the challenges that they face and the unique perspectives they can offer to society, fusing together their two sides to become a greater being. 
The first half of the poem is highly descriptive, with the poem itself opening up with lines describing the beauty of the halving of the soul. The first stanza as a whole expounds upon the richness of having two different cultural identities and establishes that the mix of the two grants a person’s personality a widened taste. This stanza builds up the positive valuation of the separation in identity established throughout the poem, setting the stage up for readers to understand the specific topic. The final line of the first stanza, “redouble your craft”, introduces the sole imperative clause of the first part of the poem, foreshadowing the second half of the poem, which is primarily imperative. The “craft” in this line describes the composition of people of two minds and the word “redouble” emphasizes the creation of something more from the two individuals.
 The following four stanzas highlight the disunion that first generation Americans face, accentuating the forced categorization of people as well as the internal conflict that they must face. The first two lines of the second stanza hold two separate phrases, “Our shelves our hives, our selves/ a royal jelly”. Throughout the poem, the author alludes to different animals and insects, likening first generation Americans to them, and the first instance of this, is a bee analogy, which is seen in this line. The bee hives are associated with the shelves, or categories that these members of society fit inside, and the royal jelly is used to describe the richness of the blood of bicultural individuals by likening it to honey. This is commentary about the many different cultures and backgrounds mixing to become a greater entity in the blood of such an individual. The parallelism through the description of two cities further enhances the recurring topic of halves within the poem. The poem proceeds with a plethora of bee analogies in the next stanza, referring to the birthright nectar. The last three lines of the third stanza emphasize the difficulties that two-minded people face, not fitting into a single category, having to be self made and work to join the two sides of them. 
The fourth stanza further remarks upon the challenges faced by dual minded entities and the difficulties they face to fit in, with the “rewritable memory” and “hybrid vigor” mentioned in the final two lines of the stanza further establishing the motif of halves. These two phrases also display how arduous it is to live in two boxes, to “rewrite” one’s memory in the goal of being able to fit in. The next stanza continues this discussion, citing English’s many different predecessors that formed the language, and forming another animal metaphor, “mother mutt”, describing a dog of many breeds. This alludes to the “hyphenated poets” that are the focus of the poem, reiterating that they are one made of many. The final line of the stanza closes off the first part of the poem, describing how English is easily influenced through its “ruts”. Through this line, the poem is alluding to how the souls of poets are receptive to the many influences around them, becoming a new, diversified person through the impact of these influences, transitioning into the next stanza and part of the poem.
The stanza beginning with the line, “Oneness? Pure Chimera”, represents the turning point of the poem, transitioning the focus from declaratory and descriptive clauses to commands, a channeling of the definition of dual-minded and bi-cultural into a synthesis of the two sides of a “hyphenated poet”. Though “To the Hyphenated Poets” seems to focus on the motifs of two halves and facing challenges through its many metaphors in the first part of the poem, it uses these motifs to make a statement about the creation of one from many, progressively stressing the concept of e pluribus unum and highlighting how one greater soul can come from the two halves that face those challenges. The word “pure” in the aforementioned line is a double entendre, not only stressing that “hyphenated poets” are completely chimeras, but also creating an oxymoron, as chimera’s are, by definition, beasts made up of numerous others, further highlighting the theme of one coming from many. The final lines of the stanza further this point, beckoning the reader to establish those multiple selves, splitting up the chimera of identities, and making each a whole; 2 people out of one.
The next stanza proceeds to describe the metaphorical hyphen described in the title, likening it to a bridge, joining one nation to another, perfectly capturing the unification of peoples through the joining of the two sides, later mentioning the recombination of these sides and becoming self made. Following the pattern of repetition in the poem, a “many-minded mongrel” is referenced at the beginning of the final stanza, allegorizing the poets to a mixed breed of dogs once more, circling back to the theme of one being made from many. The next line of the final stanza, “the line’s renewal”, plays into the recurring motif of a new creation, being referenced earlier on in the poem, how the line of previous generation has been renewed with the creation of a new individual. This is mentioned once again in the next line with the words “self -made”, followed by the reiteration of the line from the end of the sixth stanza, “twofold”. The final line of the poem, “soul and dual”, holds a double entendre as well. The word “soul” is perfectly used, at first in the definition of the way it is mentioned as a person’s internal being, but also as its homophone, “sole”, referring to a single person that is of two, concluding the poem with the point of creation.
The poem uses an extensive series of analogies, metaphors, and figurative techniques to highlight a single point, that from two halves, one whole can be formed. It is a representation of the confound problems and challenges that come from the divisiveness within a person of multiple backgrounds, and through all this, “To the Hyphenated Poets” develops a meaningful ideology, inviting those who relate to them, encouraging them to grow and be reborn from all their different parts, into one larger being with the skills, talents, and ability to endure any obstacle before them.
