The Islamic Republic of Iran faced significant opposition during 2022 with the rise of the “Woman, Life, Freedom” protests. These protests occurred as a response to rising discontent with the treatment of women in Iran, with the catalyst of these protests being the death of Mahsa Amiri. Amiri was a young Iranian woman who was arrested for her “improper” wear of her hijab, eventually dying while in the custody of the Iranian government. She was the spark of the fire that ensued, as many women around the world rose to the occasion in support of Iranian women and their rights. Led by artist Farnaz Zabetian and activist group ARTogether, the mural was a planned project to spread awareness about the issue, and though the topic is unique, the impact of the techniques used is visible in earlier protest artworks (Sarah). The very creation of this art as a public mural that many can see is an emulation of Lambert’s statements of arts of movement as it is “accessible to all” and located within a movement, “rather than a gallery”. The imagery serves to create a transition between the pre-existing movements and the current possibilities of progress. Employing the methods of inversion, appropriation, and procession of bodies that we have seen during the French Revolution and Black Lives Matter movement, the “Women, Life, Freedom” artwork paints a powerful message about the necessity of freedom for Iranian women.
The Iranian Flag is the most obvious symbolism presented in the painting, with the striking red, white and green colors representative of the entire people of Iran, however unfinished and obstructed. Though the movement is a direct challenge towards the regime and government that the flag represents, it is instead representative of its alternative meaning: the people of Iran. This calls attention, not only to the location of the crisis, but the people involved in the movement. However, the changing of the flag was more than that. A key piece of the flag is missing, however. The center of the flag, holding the coat of arms of the Ayatollah, has been a large part of the “Women, Life, Freedom” controversy. The coat of arms is representative of the current Iranian government, one that is held together by values grounded to the core in the Islamic religious principles that Mahsa Amini was accused of offending. This change is an inversion of the flag from the general meaning, taking the power of this symbol from the state and relegating its power to the people, specifically the women of Iran. This inversion of the flag is very similar to that represented in Eugene Delacroix’s “Liberty Leading the People,” where Marriane, the French allegory of Liberty, leads the people forward carrying the French flag. The flag was hence a representation of the people rather than the ruling elite. 
The woman that covers the flag is an allegorized form of all Iranian women. She is depicted to be cutting off her hair in an act of defiance against the state as many Iranian women did following the death of Mahsa Amini (Chappell and Hernandez). The number of women that took to this measure of cutting hair in solidarity is representative of Mona Azouf’s statement regarding festivals, “It is also a victory over solitude… it restores harmony to the world.” This is similar to performance art from Suzanne Lacy and Leslie Labowitz’s “In Mourning and In Rage,” where women gathered in solidarity for the loss of lives, all wearing black hoods to represent the victims. 
This discussion of festivals is compounded by the banner that is painted above the Iranian flag, displaying silhouettes of protesters carrying signs. These individuals are portrayed as unorganized and unordered, but strong and emotional, many of them raising their hands up for the movement. Similar once again to imagery from the French Revolution, the silhouettes portray a levee en masse. They are moving in a fashion that resembles a procession of bodies.
The protesters carry signs that say “#MahsaAmini” representing the fact that the movement is marching in her name. This is similar to the use of Martyrdom in Jacques-Louis David’s Death of Marat, where the painting became a reference to the revolution and his death was commemorated as a mark of protest. Though Amini’s death is not directly pictured in the mural as Marat’s was, the citation of her name in hashtag form as well as the “Women, Life, Freedom” movements’ continuous reference to her death helps establish a congruous connection of martyrdom. 
A key part of the image are the fists that are raised in red on the mural. This fist raised up is representative of standing up for a movement, most commonly and recently used during the inception of the Black Lives Movement. A notable piece of artwork that utilized this fist was the projection of the fist onto the Robert E. Lee war memorial, where artists used inversion on the controversial memorial to make a statement regarding the inequality in the country. Rather than being similar to this usage of the fist by the Black Lives Matter movement, the artists of the “Women, Life, Freedom” movement appropriate the fist itself, using the now-common image of solidarity, equality, and standing up against oppression as a background for the movement. Along with this, it is also consistent with the projection on the Robert E. Lee memorial, in its use in a shared public space. This serves as a broader method to share its message as a piece of mass media, rather than pieces of earlier times that were viewed by limited, restricted groups. These movement pieces are referred to by Lambert as, “art that intervenes in the public space and mass media, becoming a form of tactical media itself.
The elements used in the murals help prove the presence of art being used as a catalyst for social change in the Iranian Women’s Rights movement. During a time of tumultuous political dissidence and segregation, rather than using text and speech to communicate an issue or protest, this mural serves to make an effective point as a piece of artwork. Utilizing techniques from time periods as recent as the Black Lives Matter movement and the more recent past of the French Revolution, the mural is able to make a subtle, but public and widespread protest piece about the women’s rights issues taking place in Iran.
